Multi-Coloring Algorithm                          {#coloring}
======

[TOC]



# Introduction

Multi-Coloring algorithm is a representative method to remove `race condition` in unstructured grid format.  
  
In LU-SGS method, the strong data dependency during the forward and backward sweep makes it a tough challenge for shared-memory parallelization. By applying multi-coloring algorithm, SMP (Shared-memory Parallelism) computation is available while using LU-SGS method.  
  
This algorithm identifies adjacency information of each cell, then constructs nonadjacent cells into a cluster. In case of two-dimensional structured grid, red-black ordering (or checkerboard scheme) is applicable, using only two-colors. However, due to the irregular adjacency information in unstructured grid, more than three colors are required.  
  
Every cell in the grid must be classified as different color with reference to the neighbor cells, and computation is processed simultaneously within each cluster. Cells colored with identical color have no data dependency so that race condition does not occured when material properties are updated at the same time.


# Example

\image html coloring.png

<CENTER>

**Example of multicoloring algorithm implementation**  
*(Left) Simple unstructured grid, (Center) Grid connection graph, (Right) Result after applying multicoloring algorithm*  

</CENTER>

  
From the above figures, each node of the graph refers to the cell and edges are the adjacency information. In this example, three colors are used.



# References

- 2013, Sato, Y., Hino, T., and Ohashi, K., “Parallelization of an unstructured Navier-Stokes solver using a multi-color ordering method for OpenMP,” *Comput. Fluids.,* Vol.88, pp.496-509.

- 2023, Zhang, J., Dai, Z., Li, R., Deng, L., Liu, J., and Zhou, N., “Acceleration of a Production-Level Unstructured Grid Finite Volume CFD Code on GPU,” *Appl. Sci.*, Vol.13.